Right in the middle of Japan, high in the mountains, there lived an old man in his little house. He was very proud of them, and never tired of admiring whiteness of his straw mats, papered walls and the beautiful, the warm weather postponed again and again, so could the smell of trees and flowers come in.

One day he was facing views of the mountain when he heard a kind of the rumbling sound in the room behind him. He turned around, and in the corner he saw an old rusty iron kettle, which could not have seen the light of day for many years. As the kettle, it was the old man did not know, but he took it up and looked him over carefully, and when he found that it was all pretty he cleaned off the dust and carried it in his kitchen.

"It was a godsend," he said, smiling to himself, a good kettle costs money, and there is also a second to have at hand in an emergency, I get out, and carried the water starts coming through his already below." Then he took the other kettle from the fire, the new filled with water, and put it in its place.

No sooner was the water in the kettle warm than a strange thing happened and the man who was thoughtful, he dreamed of. First the handle of the kettle gradually changed its shape and was in one and the spout grew into a tail while jumping out of the body four feet, and in a few minutes the man found himself watching, not a kettle, but a tanuki! The creature jumped the fire, and limited by the room like a kitten, run up the walls and the ceiling above, until the old man in an agony to spoil his pretty rooms. He shouted to a neighbor for help, and between them they managed to catch the tanuki, and shut him in a safe wooden chest. Then, quite exhausted, they sat down on the mats, and consulted together, what they do with that pesky animal. Finally it was decided to sell it, and offered a child that they send over a certain merchant named Jimmu.

When Jimmu arrived, the old man said to him that he something he wanted, had get rid of and lifted the lid of the wooden box where he had locked himself the tanuki. But to his surprise, there was no tanuki, nothing but the kettle he had found in the corner. It was certainly very odd, but the man remembered what happened was made to the fire, and did not want to keep the kettle each more so after a little haggling over the price, Jimmu went away carrying the kettle with it.

Now Jimmu had not gone far before he felt that the vessel was gone forever heavier and heavier, and when he got home, he was so tired that he was grateful to be laid down in the corner of his room, and then forgot all about it. In the middle of the night but he was awakened by a loud noise in the corner where the kettle stood, and sat up in bed to see what it was. But nothing was there except the kettle, which seemed to be quiet enough. He thought he must have dreamed, and fell asleep again, only to be woken a second time by the same error. He jumped up and went to the corner, and by the light of the lamp that he always kept burning, he saw that The kettle was a tanuki, the current round after his tail was. After he was tired, that he ran to the balcony, where he made several somersaults, from pure joy of the heart. The tradesman was much troubled as what to do with the animal, and it was only towards morning that he managed to sleep, but when he opened his eyes again there was no tanuki, only the old kettle he had left it the night before.

Once he cleaned up his house, Jimmu set out to tell his story, a friend from next door. The man listened quietly and did not seem so surprised when Jimmu expected, because he remembered to have heard in his youth, about a wonder- working kettle. 'Go and travel with him, and show them,' he said, "And you'll become a rich man, but be careful to ask the first, the tanuki leave, and also perform some magic ceremonies to prevent him from carrying out away at the sight of the people."

Jimmu thanked his friend for his advice, whom he followed closely. The tanuki's consent was granted, a stand was built, and hung a notice invitation to come out to the people and witness the most wonderful transformation that has ever seen.

They came in droves, and the kettle was passed from hand to hand, and they were allowed to examine them all over, and also to look inward. Then Jimmu took it back, and when he commanded on the platform, that it has become a tanuki. In an instant the handle began to change a head, and the spout into a tail, during the four paws appeared on the sides. 'Dance' said Jimmu, and the tanuki did his steps, and went first to one side and then on the other, until the people could not stop, no more and began to dance. He gracefully led the fan dance, and glided without a pause in the shadows dance and umbrella dance, and it seemed as if he could go on dancing forever. And so very likely he would, if Jimmu had not declared that he had enough dancing and that the booth will be closed now.

Day after day on the stand was so crowded it was almost impossible to enter it, and, which had predicted the neighbor come to pass, and Jimmu was a rich man, but he did not feel happy. He was an honest man, and he thought he owed some of the his fortune to the man of whom he had bought the kettle. So, one morning, he put into hundred pieces of gold and hanging the kettle once more on his arm, he returned it to the seller. "I have no right to keep it longer," he added, as he had finished his story, "so I brought it back to you, and inside you will find a hundred pieces of gold as a reward for his rent. "

The man thanked Jimmu, and said that few people would have as honestly as it. And the kettle brought them both luck and everything went well with them until they died, they, when they were very old, respected by all did.
